DM-4706 As device integrator I want a way to read platform version with SmartREST (#3321)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/device-integration/fragment-library-bundle/platform-version.md

---
weight: 160

> title: Platform version

Reviewer: Please als change the file name accordingly
```suggestion
title: Platform capabilities
```

layout: bundle
sector: 
  - device_management
---

> In order to understand the capabilities of the platform like support of API interfaces or behaviour of requests to them, we need to read the platform version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to understand the capabilities of the platform such as the support of API interfaces or the behaviour of requests to them, we must read the platform version.
```

> In order to understand the capabilities of the platform such as the support of API interfaces or the behaviour of requests to them, we must read the platform version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to understand the capabilities of the platform, such as the support of API interfaces or the behaviour of requests to them, we must read the platform version.
```

> In order to understand the capabilities of the platform, such as the support of API interfaces or the behaviour of requests to them, we must read the platform version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to understand the capabilities of the platform, such as the support of API interfaces or the behaviour of requests to them, you need to know the platform version. 
```

> In order to understand the capabilities of the platform, such as the support of API interfaces or the behaviour of requests to them, you need to know the platform version. 

Reviewer 3: I don't like that you address the reader with you. @BeateRixen your thoughts?

Reviewer 2: That is actually what we do the documentation, directly address the user, avoid using "we" and avoid passive voice. In this case here, we could rephrase it to "information on the platform version is required".

> In order to understand the capabilities of the platform, such as the support of API interfaces or the behaviour of requests to them, you need to know the platform version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Devices may require information about platform capabilities. To enable new device side functionality new API or optional components may be required. For this purpose Cumulocity provides dedicated interfaces.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Platform version {#platform-version}

To enable functionality that requires a minumum Cumulocity platform version it is best practice to first query this version before attempting to use newly added API. 

```

```http

> POST /tenant/system/options/system/version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```http
GET /tenant/system/options/system/version
```

```json
{
    "category": "system",
    "value": "2025.0.0",
    "key": "version"
}
```

|Field|Data type|Details|
|----|----|----|
|category|string|Category of the system option (always "system")|
|value|string|Platform version|
|key|string|Key of the system option (always "version")|
```

```

**SmartREST example**

> To read the platform version the following SmartREST template must be called

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To read the platform version the following SmartREST template must be called:
```

> To read the platform version the following SmartREST template must be called:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 600 static request template and its corresponding 601 static response template are available for SmartREST enabled devices:
```

> `600`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sending request
`600`
Receiving response
`601,2025.0.0`
```

---
weight: 160
title: Platform capabilities
layout: bundle
sector: 
  - device_management
---

> Devices may require information about platform capabilities. To enable new device side functionality new API or optional components may be required. For this purpose Cumulocity provides dedicated interfaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Devices may require information about platform capabilities. To enable new device-side functionality, a new API or optional components may be required. For this purpose, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides dedicated interfaces.
```

### Platform version {#platform-version}

> To enable functionality that requires a minumum Cumulocity platform version it is best practice to first query this version before attempting to use newly added API. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable functionality that requires a minumum {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform version it is best practice to first query this version before attempting to use a newly added API. 
```

> ```http

Reviewer: There seems to be some sort of formatting error here and some of my suggestions about the REST process missing.

Author: Done now

---

> weight: 160

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
weight: 145
```

Reviewer 2: Should be sorted alphabetically before "Remote access"

title: Platform capabilities
layout: bundle
sector: 
  - device_management
---

Devices may require information about platform capabilities. To enable new device-side functionality, a new API or optional components may be required. For this purpose, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides dedicated interfaces.
### Platform version {#platform-version}

> To enable functionality that requires a minumum {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform version it is best practice to first query this version before attempting to use a newly added API. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable functionality that requires a minimum version of the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform it is best practice to first query this version before attempting to use a newly added API. 
```

```http
GET /tenant/system/options/system/version

{
    "category": "system",
    "value": "2025.0.0",
    "key": "version"
}
```

| Field    | Data type | Details                                                  |
|----------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| category | string    | Category of the system option (always "system")         |
| value    | string    | Platform version                                         |
| key      | string    | Key of the system option (always "version")             |

**SmartREST example**

The 600 static request template and its corresponding 601 static response template are available for SmartREST enabled devices:

> Sending request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sending request

```

`600`

> Receiving response

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Receiving response

```

Reviewer 2: Otherwise it is formatted in one row.
